.TH XWorld 1
.SH NAME
xworld - Display randomly generated worlds.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xworld
[\fIoptions\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
XWorld is a simple program that generates random worlds using perlin noise, and
renders them randomly pixel by pixel.

Using command line options, you can customise the delay between each new world,
the size of each step in the noise grid, the noise thresholds for each terrain
feature, and the colour of each feature.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 8
.B \-root
Display on the root window instead of a newly created window.
.TP 8
.B \-delay \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI3000000\fP)
The delay between each new world.
.TP 8
.B \-water\-col \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI#0000FF\fP)
The colour value for bits of the map that would usually be water.
.TP 8
.B \-sand\-col \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI#FFCC00\fP)
The colour value for bits of the map that would usually be sand.
.TP 8
.B \-peak\-col \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI#EEEEEE\fP)
The colour value for bits of the map that would usually be mountain peaks.
.TP 8
.B \-mtn\-col \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI#AAAAAA\fP)
The colour value for bits of the map that would usually be mountains.
.TP 8
.B \-grass\-col \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI#00FF00\fP)
The colour value for bits of the map that would usually be grass.
.TP 8
.B \-water\-max \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI\30\fP)
The threshold noise value for water. Every pixel between 0 and this value
is water. (All -max options get scaled to between -1 and 1).
.TP 8
.B \-sand\-max \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI\35\fP)
The threshold noise value for sand. Every pixel between the water threshold 
and this value is sand.
.TP 8
.B \-grass\-max \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI70\fP)
The threshold noise value for grass. Every pixel between the sand threshold
and this value is grass.
.TP 8
.B \-mtn\-max \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI85\fP)
The threshold noise value for mountains. Every pixel between the grass threshold
and this value is mountains. Everything higher is mountain peak.
.TP 8
.B \-grid\-step \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI0.0075\fP)
A bigger value effectively zooms out the generated worlds. If the value is too
high (i.e. >1) then you will just get useless random noise.
.TP 8
.B \-pixels-per-loop \fIvalue\fP (Default: \fI100\fP)
The number of pixels to render at each iteration. A higher value will result
in a faster transition between worlds, but will increase the time spent in
the draw function.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR X (1),
.BR xscreensaver (1)
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2014 by Samuel Sleight
.SH AUTHOR
Samuel Sleight <samuel.sleight@gmail.com>, March 2014
